# Proposal

### Date: 24 Oct 2018
### Group Names: Haeley Griffin, Xingbang Liu, Jordan Wilson, Sweta Rauniyar


* **Motivation** (Sweta)

In the real world, all of us have a motive to get to our destination from our source. This is how the world of Computer Science works where we emphasize on building a path that can lead us to our desired outcome. With this concept in mind, our team desired to come up with an idea of working on Graphs for our final project. Graphs are one of the most important data structures that have been widely used as an investigated area in path finding. We would like to emphasize on the fact that our end goal is not just to discover the path but also find the shortest path. We will be analyzing the relation between all the vertices and edges of the graph, exploring some common graph path traverse algorithms and analyze their complexities, and furthermore understand the advantage and disadvantage of the algorithm. Finally, with all of these collected information,  we would like to pick a most efficient algorithm, and build a maze traverser upon it. this maze traverser works as a great application that adds to the theme of our project which is finding the shortest path.

* **What We Are Going To Do** (Haeley)

In this project our team has decided to explore many different algorithms to decide which is the most efficient. The algorithms we decided to explore are Breadth-first Search, Depth-first Search, Greedy Search, Dijkstra's Algorithm and A* Search. These algorithms all have different techniques in which they go about solving the problem at hand. With Breadth-first Search it goes about the search by using a queue. It also can be explained by the saying "first in, first out". Depth-first Search uses a stack to search. I can also be explained as "first in, last out". Greedy Search works by selecting the best-looking option at each step. It does this by using heuristic which is an approximation of how close you are to you end point. Dijkstra's Algorithm is just like Breadth-first Search but for weighted graphs. If the graph is not weighted then Dijkstra's Algorithm is just BFS. Dijkstra's Algorithm explores nodes in increasing order of cost. The last Search method our team would like to investigate is A* Search. This search is a combination of the best of BFS and Greedy. Like BFS it finds the shortest path and like Greedy it finds it the fastest.

* **Conclusion** (Jordan Wilson)

For the idea we chose for our project, we decided to make an algorithm that chooses the shortest path in a situation where multiple paths can be chosen. The expected outcome is to find the shortest path of any maze or situation given to us. For example, We are going to use the heuristic of the Greedy first best algorithm and find the shortest path possible. The idea and difference between all of these algorithms are that they all in their own way find the shortest path possible for people to use. Our goal is to evaluate all of these algorithms and to determine for ourselves which of these algorithms give us the shortest path. What we also have to explore is the map given to us. If the map that is given to us in any way can be altered, we have to consider which algorithm we need to choose based on the map. One algorithm can find the shortest possible path for one map, but for a different map, a different algorithm can find the shortest possible path. All of the algorithms we are going to explore have advantages and disadvantages. Through the evaluation and testing of the algorithms, we expected to find the shortest possible path for every situation and any map that is given to us.
